Menu

[University of Gothenburg](/en)

- [Listen](//app-eu.readspeaker.com/cgi-bin/rsent?customerid=9467&lang=en_uk&readclass=region--content&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gu.se%2Fen%2Fstudy-gothenburg%2Fmasters-programme-in-political-science-environmental-governance-and-behavior-s2spe%2Fsyllabus%2F99f66653-11f0-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c "Listen with ReadSpeaker")

- [Contact](/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](/studera/hitta-utbildning/mastersprogram-i-statsvetenskap-politik-och-psykologi-om-hallbar-utveckling-s2spe/utbildningsplan/99f66653-11f0-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)
- [International website](/en/study-gothenburg/masters-programme-in-political-science-environmental-governance-and-behavior-s2spe/syllabus/99f66653-11f0-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Master's Programme in Political Science: Environmental Governance and Behavior

## Mastersprogram i statsvetenskap: Politik och psykologi om hållbar utveckling

Program


S2SPE


120 credits (ECTS)


Go to
[Master's Programme in Political Science: Environmental Governance and Behavior](/en/study-gothenburg/masters-programme-in-political-science-environmental-governance-and-behavior-s2spe)

## About the Syllabus

Valid from


Spring semester 2024


Registration number


GU 2024/1098


Date of entry into force


2025-09-01


Decision date


2024-06-13


Valid from semester


Autum semester 2025


Decision maker


Faculty Board of Social Sciences


Collaborating department


Department of Psychology

Starts at first-cycle level and ends at second-cycle level


No


## Specialisations

## Purpose

The purpose of the programme is to provide an educational platform for students who are aiming at a career within the growing field of environmental governance and sustainable development. The programme has an applied approach by focusing on solutions to different types of resource degradation and overexploitation of ecosystem services. The programme adopts a research-oriented approach. As such, this education puts special emphasis on independent work methods, the ability to solve problems, and to produce high-quality texts and reports in accordance with academic principles, as well as the ability to critical assessment and discussion. The programme equips the students with qualified theoretical, analytical and methodological skills that can be implemented in policy-orientated processes that addresses issues of sustainability. The main subject of the programme is political science. Students are also eligible for post-graduate studies in political science.

## Entry requirements

Eligible for the programme is the one who has a Bachelor's degree of 180 credits in political science, psychology, public administration, economics, business administration, human ecology, human geography, global studies, international relations, environmental social science, or equivalent.

Applicants must prove their knowledge of English: English 6/English B from Swedish Upper Secondary School or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

Any other entry requirements are documented in the respective course syllabus.

## Content

Every student takes one core course in political science, one compulsory course in research methods, two in-depth courses in political science, one course in environmental psychology, and another course in research method, or a course in political psychology.

The programme is a full-time study programme.

For more information about each course, see course syllabus.

**Programme Overview**

**Semester 1**

Module 1

SK2121 Political Science Analysis, 15 credits (core course)

Module 2

PX2116 Political Psychology, 15 credits (core course)

or one of the following method courses:

SF2323 Applied qualitative research methods, problems and design, 15 credits

SF2322 Applied Qualitative Research Methods, 15 credits

SF2324 Introduction to applied research design and quantitative research methods for social scientists, 15 credits

SF2321 Applied Statistical Analysis, 15 credits

**Semester 2** (in-depth courses)

Module 1

SK2223 Environmental Problems within Social Science: From Tragedy of the Commons to Planetary Boundaries, 15 credits

Module 2

SK2221 Environmental Politics and Institutions, 15 credits

**Semester 3**

Module 1

PX2151 Environmental Psychology, 15 credits (core course)

Module 2

PX2116 Political Psychology, 15 credits (core course)

or one of the following method courses:

SF2323 Applied qualitative research methods, problems and design, 15 credits

SF2322 Applied Qualitative Research Methods, 15 credits

SF2324 Introduction to applied research design and quantitative research methods for social scientists, 15 credits

SF2321 Applied Statistical Analysis, 15 credits

**Semester 4** (thesis course)

SK2532 Master Thesis, 30 credits

## Objectives

After completing the programme the student should achieve the applicable outcomes for the relevant education cycle contained in the Swedish Higher Education Act (Swedish Code of Statutes – SFS 1993:100, Qualifications Ordinance, Appendix 2).

**Local outcomes**

After completed education, the student shall

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- Have an in-depth knowledge of the main concepts within the field of political science for the study of environment and sustainable development.
- Have an extensive knowledge of the main concepts of psychology for the study of the environment and sustainable development.
- Have a comprehensive knowledge of essential natural- and social science perspectives for the study of environment and sustainable development.

**_Competence and skills_**

- Demonstrate an advanced capacity for critical assessment of research literature.
- Demonstrate an advanced capacity to produce texts independently and in accordance with academic principles, including proper citation technique and use of references.

**_Judgement and approach_**

- Demonstrate an in-depth ability to look at problems with resource degradation and overexploitation of ecosystem services from different political science and psychological perspectives.
- Demonstrate an in-depth ability to identify solutions to problems with resource degradation and overexploitation of ecosystem services from different political science and psychological perspectives.

## Sustainability labelling

The programme is sustainability-focused, which means that at least one of the outcomes clearly shows that the programme content meets at least one of the University of Gothenburg’s confirmed sustainability criteria. The content also constitutes the programme's main focus.


## Transitional provisions

None.

## Other regulations

The study programme will be followed up and evaluated in accordance with the applicable Policy for the Quality Assurance and Continuous Quality Improvement of Education at the University of Gothenburg (Policy för kvalitetssäkring och kvalitetsutveckling av utbildning vidGöteborgs universitet).

## Guaranteed admission

Students admitted to the programme have a general guaranteed admission to all compulsory courses within the programme, provided that they 1) apply according to specified administrative procedures, and 2) have completed courses that are included in the prerequisites. Students admitted to the programme have a limited guaranteed admission to the elective courses within the programme under the same conditions as above.